Remember the last time you talked to a sales person
at a store?
Did you feel annoyed by their approach
or did you appreciate their help?
Think about why you felt that way.
What did the sales person do to either,
get on your nerves or gain your trust?
Personality types can come into play in many situations.
In sales, they can reveal how people prefer to interact
and make decisions.
Knowing how to approach each type
can facilitate those interactions and boost your sales.
There are four types of buyer personalities.
Now these are broad generalizations
but they can help you understand
some of the different ways buyers behave.
First amiable buyers are friendly and easy to approach.
You can usually spot them by their relaxed demeanor,
they're patient and non-confrontational.
Animated personalities also like to be social.
But while those with amiable characteristics are relaxed,
animated types are full of energy
and tend to prefer a faster pace.
Analytical buyers need all the details before they buy.
They might even know as much about your product
or service as you do,
because of the research they've done.
And assertive buyers speak their mind,
and don't like to waste time.
When a buyer just wants to get down to business,
they're probably an assertive type.
Considering the differences between these four types,
what are some ways you can use to approach each one?
Let's start with the two styles
that prefer to stay more social.
With an amiable personality, it's important to take it easy,
relax your posture when you speak to them
and focus on group benefits.
Whatever you do, don't rush them.
Buyers of this type, take the longest to decide
because they like to consider how their choices
will affect others.
Animated buyers are easy to spot
because they're the most talkative and engaging.
Tell a story to get their attention
and get to know them by asking personal questions
to win their trust.
Always follow up with the details
because an animated buyer may get distracted.
Next, we'll talk about the two styles
that like to focus on the task at hand.
These styles don't need a lot of small talk
and would rather just get the information they need.
When you come across an analytical personality
remember to be prepared, don't use opinions
and be sure to enlist experts.
These buyers don't care about rave reviews from you
or other ordinary customers, they need to see the evidence.
Clarity is the most important quality for assertive types.
So cut to the chase and give them the best recommendations.
And don't be shy, confidence is the key
to convincing an assertive buyer.
When it comes to buyer personalities, knowledge is power.
Once you identify which style of customer your speaking to,
you can adopt different strategies
to put that person at ease, rather than aggravate them.
Also after discovering your preferred style,
you can practice mirroring the style
that is the most challenging for you to interact with.
In time, shifting your approaches
so you can sell effectively to different personality types
will become second nature.